here are some things that I do to ensure
that my lessons are brain friendly we
know that brains respond well to
goal-setting if the children know why
they're doing an activity their brains
are prepared to achieve the goal we also
know that brains like to link things
together making associations strengthens
memory and learning brains respond well
to rhythm and music these can be a great
aid to memory and concentration by using
various styles of input the well-known
vak trio visual auditory and kinesthetic
we make sure we reach all the children
in the class
finally board brains are not learning
brains if we give the children tasks
which are too easy they switch off in
order for a brain to learn it needs to
be challenged cognitively when I plan my
lessons I try to include as many of
these as possible here's an example
using a song first we establish their
goals I show the children pictures of
food I ask them what kinds of words
they're going to learn today and what
words they'd like to learn now their
brains know the goal then I link in with
their previous experience I asked them
if they already know any words for the
topic that's linked learning then I
called ten children to the front of the
class and ask them to stand in a line I
give each child a picture to hold up and
play the song apples apples choose send
yogurts juice and yogurt this
it's cakes now I provide a cognitive
challenge as the other children listen I
ask them to identify the pictures of the
words which are not in the song then the
two extra children sit down then I set
another cognitive challenge I play the
song again and this time I asked the
class to help the children with the
flashcards to stand in the correct order
their brains are keeping active now
they've heard the song twice and have
the picture cards in order as prompts so
they can have a go at singing the song
themselves I also include a kinesthetic
element here the children holding the
cards bend their knees when they hear
the word so by being brain friendly the
children have fun stay on task and our
ultimate aim learn faster and more
efficiently
you